Share your nixCats-based configurations in discussions!!

If you have any questions that you don't think are bugs,
please also post them in discussions so that others may benefit from any answers in the future.

If you suspect a bug, please leave an issue here so that we can address it.

PLEASE HELP WITH DOCS AND README!!!

Im just trying to get information on the page as best as I can.

The site is autogenerated from the main readme
and the in-editor help in nixCatsHelp
so updates to the help only need to be made here.

For the readme it just uses pandoc with a github flavored markdown.
If anyone knows how to make the little warning and info
things from github work with pandoc, that would be great too.

Due to needing to work on both github and the site, all links in the README must be full urls.

The site generation for the in-editor docs will look exactly how it does in the editor,
and helptag links will work.

So feel free to just send any changes to those my way,
I wont make you work with my bespoke nvim-based site-gen, but it works quite well!

---

### Direction:

The modules are much nicer now that they merge properly.

And you can get the packages from the module to export from your system flake,
which is possibly incorrectly documented at the end of the module help file.

But basically you can grab it from your config set via self in the flake.

Go check in the repl, its there under nixCats.out.packages in the correct config set.
`self.homeConfigurations."<home_config_name>".config."<defaultPackageName>".out.packages."<package_name>"`

I would like to drastically improve the help and templates for modules,
and encourage the two main paths to be module or separate flake.

I would like to phase out the nixExpressionFlakeOutputs template,
(which wont break anyones config who used it, its just a template,
and doing it that way will continue to work as it has)

I feel that providing proper help for these 2 options as a main path of installation
provides a better onboarding path for new users.

They are familliar with modules,
and standalone flakes, but not weird mixes of the two.
And I feel like throwing in the weird mix as an option just confuses people.

I welcome any help in making this happen.

The kickstart-nvim template should remain as is until someone
comes up with a better way to explain the lazy wrapper other than
"grep for this and read about the 10 places its different"

---

### Tests:

To run the tests:

`nix flake check --show-trace --impure -Lv ./tests`

`--impure` is required to use `builtins.getFlake` on the example templates, but not for the other tests.

I will slowly be adding tests to the tests directory.

If anyone would like to add some tests, please do!

This is the suggested workflow for writing tests.

First, write a test in the test nvim config at [./tests/nvim](./tests/nvim)

To do this, add whatever dependencies you need to the `default.nix` file,
then in lua use `make_test("name", function() assert.True(condition) end)`
using the assert library from `luassert` to write tests.
Anywhere that nvim will run it is fine, but writing the tests in
a new file the plugin directory is the easiest.

Then, to run the test created, create a nix check derivation, or add to an existing one.

Inside that derivation, you must use the following to create a script that runs the tests.

```nix
  mkRunPkgTest = {
    package,
    packagename ? package.nixCats_packageName,
    runnable_name ? packagename,
    runnable_is_nvim ? true,
    preRunBash ? "",
    testnames ? {},
    ...
  }:
```

The above function will make a command to run the set of tests, to include in the `checkPhase` of the nix check derivation.

It will add the testing library to the package passed in,
and including `testname = true` in the `testnames` set will schedule that
test to be ran within that run of `nvim --headless`.

If a test is scheduled to be ran that does not exist,
or an error is thrown that causes a scheduled test not to be ran,
the `checkPhase` will hang indefinitely.

So if this happens, cancel it and define the test, or if it was defined,
you know that an uncaught failure occurred OUTSIDE of the tests themselves,
which prevented a scheduled test from being defined.

To prevent this as much as possible, if you want to use the lua directory for config outside of a test definition,
you should do it inside of [tests/nvim/lua/config](./tests/nvim/lua/config), because this directory is wrapped
in a pcall, and if it errors or not is reported by lua_dir test.

All config added to the test nvim config should be done within `if nixCats('category') then`
checks so that it can be enabled for specific tests only.

There are 2 functions for creating packages based on the module form for testing modules.

`lib.mkNixOSmodulePkgs` takes `{ package, entrymodule }`

`lib.mkHMmodulePkgs` takes `{ package, entrymodule, stateVersion ? "24.05", username = "REPLACE_ME" }`

These will give you `config.${defaultPackageName}.out.packages` containing the resulting packages from the module.
The nixos form also includes `config.${defaultPackageName}.out.users.<USERNAME>.packages`.

entrymodule in the home module test form has access to all the modules in home manager,
although they wont be evaluated, so things like setting home.sessionVariables wont show up in the test.

entrymodule in the nixos module test form does not have access to the default set of modules,
as it has to use `lib.evalModules` to build without making a whole machine,
so if you want to use outside modules you will have to import them, or define dummy options.

Like the home manager modules, you can use the config values they set and they will contain the expected values,
but they otherwise will not be evaluated and will not show up in the test.

---

Any other contributions and fixes are also welcome!

The core of the code for nixCats is in the utils and builder directories,
and the READMEs within should help explain things somewhat.

Thank you!!!
